then the Lord spoke to Moses speak to
the
of Israel
an offering from everyone who gives it
willingly with his heart you shall take
my offering and this is the offering
which you shall take from them gold
silver and bronze blue purple and
scarlet thread fine linen and goats ham
Ram skins dyed red badger skins and
acacia wood oil for the light and spices
for the anointing oil and for the sweet
incense onyx stones and stones to be set
in the ephod and in the breastplate and
let them make me a sanctuary that I may
dwell among them according to all that I
show you that is the pattern of the
tabernacle and the pattern of all its
furnishings just so you shall make it
and they shall make an ark of acacia
wood two and a half cubits shall be its
length a cubit and a half its width and
a cubit and a half its height and you
shall overlay it with pure gold inside
and out you shall overlay it and shall
make on it a molding of gold all around
you shall cast four rings of gold for it
and put them in its four corners two
rings shall be on one side and two rings
on the other side and you shall make
poles of acacia wood and overlay them
with gold you shall put the poles into
the rings on the sides of the Ark that
the Ark may be carried by them the poles
shall be in the rings of the Ark they
shall not be taken from it and you shall
put into the Ark the testimony which I
will give you you shall make a mercy
seat of pure gold two-and-a-half cubits
shall be its length and a cubit and a
half its width and you shall make two
cherubim
Gold of hammered work you shall make
them at the two ends of the mercy seat
make one cherub at one end and the other
cherub at the other end you shall make
the cherubim at the two ends of it of
one piece with the mercy seat and the
cherubim shall stretch out their wings
above covering the mercy seat with their
wings and they shall face one another
the faces of the cherubim shall be
toward the mercy seat you shall put the
mercy seat on top of the Ark and in the
Ark you shall put the testimony that I
will give you and there I will meet with
you and I will speak with you from above
the mercy seat from between the two
cherubim which are on the Ark of the
testimony about everything which I will
give you in commandment to the children
of Israel
you shall also make a table of acacia
wood two cubits shall be its length a
cubit its width and a cubit and a half
its height and you shall overlay it with
pure gold and make a molding of gold all
around you shall make for it a frame of
a handbreadth all around and you shall
make a gold molding for the frame all
around and you shall make for it four
rings of gold and put the rings on the
four corners that are at its four legs
the rings shall be close to the frame as
holders for the poles to bear the table
and you shall make the poles of acacia
wood and overlay them with gold that the
table may be carried with them you shall
make it's dishes its pans its pitchers
and its bowls for pouring you shall make
them of pure gold and you shall set the
showbread on the table before me always
you shall also make a lampstand of pure
gold the lampstands shall be of hammered
work its shaft its branches its bowls
its ornamental knobs and flowers shall
be of one piece and six branches shall
come out of its size three branches of
the lamp stand out of one side and three
branches of the lamp stand out of the
other side three bones shall be made
like almond blossoms on one branch with
an ornamental knob and a flower and
three bowls made like almond blossoms on
the other branch with an ornamental knob
and a flower and so for the six branches
that come out of the lamp stand on the
lamp stand itself four bowls shall be
made like almond blossoms each with its
ornamental knob and flower and there
shall be a knob under the first two
branches of the same a knob onto the
second two branches of the same and a
knob under the third two branches
the same according to the six branches
that extend from the lampstand their
knobs and their branches shall be of one
piece all of it shall be one hammered
piece of pure gold you shall make seven
lamps for it and they shall arrange its
lamps so that they give light in front
of it and its wick trimmers and their
trays shall be of pure gold it shall be
made of a talent of pure gold with all
these utensils and see to it that you
make them according to the pattern which
were shown you on the mountain